well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about how
trump brought manufacturing back to the
united states
this was a big campaign promise of his
in 2016.
and uh i mean it's kind of happening
so what we're going to do is uh go
through the reasons it's happening and
see if you can really take credit for it
if this really is promise is made
promise is kept
to give you an overview short version is
companies
want to move production
closer to home now that may be within
their
nation of origin or just within the
region
but they want to reduce the length of
their supply chain
that's their goal okay the reasons
they're doing this
number one climate change and the
instability it's likely to cause
given the fact that president trump did
a whole bunch of things to make climate
change
worse yeah sure we can give him credit
for this
that this reason falls under him at
least in part
in that 4d chess kind of way
the second the exposure of weaknesses
in times of crisis basically
he mishandled the public health thing so
much
that companies uh experienced
interruptions
in their supply chain so they don't want
that to happen again
they're responding to his incompetence
the third thing national security
and this one he he intended to do um
trump rightfully pointed out that a lot
of components for military hardware
are made in countries that at some point
in the future
could become opposition that's
probably going to change
i would point out that he missed the
fact that the reason they're likely to
become
opposition is climate change and that
generally speaking
economic ties between countries prevents
war
the fourth is trade disputes his tariff
wars
not so much the tariffs themselves but
the erratic nature
basically companies could not respond
fast enough to his
tweets to keep their supply chain intact
it was too erratic they didn't know what
was going on uncertainty is bad for
business
so they're changing that and they're
bringing manufacturing closer to home
for the five reasons and if you're a
trump supporter right now despite my
little
jabs you're probably saying hey promises
made
promises kept i would like to point out
that i have been saying manufacturing is
coming back
not manufacturing jobs
because the fifth reason is labor costs
this is from merrell bank of america
firms in almost all industries plan to
make the transition work
using robots and automation
they're suggesting that the use of
robots will double
in the next five years maybe even more
than that because the cost of automation
keeps dropping
so while manufacturing may be coming
back
those good union jobs they aren't
it's not going to be like the old days
because it isn't the old days
the united states historically is not a
country that looks to the past
which was a critical error
in the trump administration i would also
like to point out that it's pretty
telling
that he didn't see this coming that
nobody in the administration saw this
coming
given the fact that during the
democratic primaries there was a
candidate who was pretty much
just saying this over and over and over
and over again
andrew yang did a really good job of
explaining that the robots
are coming for your job
at the end of the day manufacturing is
coming back but those jobs are probably
not coming with it not to the scale that
people are imagining
there will be those who maybe
the robots will be made here maybe
there's that
there will be some technician jobs but
the idea of those manufacturing jobs
those that he promised they're not
coming
they are phased out they are obsolete
and again i would point out that this
was accomplished
by making climate change worse and
increasing the chance of war with major
powers
i'm not sure that was a good trade
despite the fact
it came from the guy behind art of the
deal
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day